[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Some of you may
resonate with this.
But being a single,
divorced mother on welfare
was really, really hard.
But this particular
day, it was October.
It was chilly.
And I kind of felt like
I had it all together.
I got up.
I got showered in record time.
I got my daughter cleaned,
dressed, breakfast.
I had even meditated
twice that week.
And I was thinking,
yes, I got this.
I got this.
I can do this.
Oh yeah, and I even
looked a little cute
because I had my
little outfit on.
And I was going to
take her to lunch.
So we're playing in the morning
and going about our day.
And I'm thinking,
finally, finally,
I'm putting the pieces together.
Like maybe because I'm
doing all the right things
to the best of my
ability, maybe I got this.
But here's the thing about
doing all the right things.
If they're not
right for you, you
are in for a world of potential
pain and disappointment.
So we went to lunch.
And I didn't have much money.
But I had enough money to
get her a healthy lunch.
So we went to a
health food store.
And I was all proud
that no one else
would know that I was on welfare
because I was in this really
nice health food store.
And we bought lunch.
And we went up into
the food court.
And I'm sitting there.
And she's sitting there.
And she's in a high chair.
And we're laughing.
And we're eating.
And she was eating
mac and cheese.
And I had chicken.
And I bit into a chicken bone.
And both of our lives
changed forever.
So let me back up.
I had a lifelong stress-based
grand mal seizure
disorder since I was a teenager
that was non-epileptic.
That meant they had
no idea what it was.
That's what non-epileptic
seizures mean at that time
to the Western
medicine community.
And so I went with
no actual diagnosis,
with no medical protocol,
with no medications.
And here I am eating
lunch with my daughter.
And one minute I'm there,
and the next minute I'm gone.
So apparently biting down
hard into the chicken bone
created this explosive
cascade of overwhelming stress
in my nervous system
instantaneously.
And what happened was I seized.
I flipped into
the plate of food.
I flipped over backwards out of
my chair, landed on the ground,
and then woke up I don't know
how long later to paramedics.
So let me just tell
you a little bit
about what happens in a grand
mal clonic-tonic seizure.
In my case, my heart stopped,
which was not new for me.
This had happened four or
five times before this.
It's called bradycardia
where your heart plummets
very rapidly.
And if you keep doing
that in seizures,
you get really good at it.
And it gets faster.
And then, eventually, it stops.
So my heart stopped.
My reticular activating system
in the middle of my brain
shut off, which meant my brain
had no oxygen, therefore,
couldn't work.
So I'm unconscious.
And I'm out long enough
for paramedics to come.
And I don't know
how long that is.
But let me tell you
what it's like to wake
up from one of those.
You can't speak.
You can't move.
You don't have a sense of time.
You can't really
create clear thoughts.
You can't hold your urine.
You can't hold your bowels.
Sometimes the icing
on the cake, you
vomit on top of all of that.
That's what happens
when you wake up.
And so I opened my eyes.
Oh my god, I'm on
the floor urinating.
Where's-- I had my daughter.
I had a daughter.
I have a daughter.
Is she-- I brought my daughter.
OK.
I brought my daughter here.
I don't see her.
I can't turn my head.
Where's my daughter?
Was she with me?
Was that accurate?
Was she safe?
Was she abducted?
And my worst nightmare,
did she see this?
She runs over.
She's there.
She puts her hand on my chest.
And she says,
Mommy, did you die?
Yes, I did.
These are not the
conversations you
want to have with a
three-year-old ever, ever.
And by the time she was
four, the first sequence
of numbers she
ever memorized was
911, not her phone number, not
her address, not even her age.
So you don't have to
have a ridiculous seizure
disorder to understand the
truth of this dilemma for you.
All of you right now are
doing everything you possibly
can to do your best,
to do the right things,
to be your best, to
learn as much as you
can to keep yourself healthy.
And you're all here
for the same reason.
You haven't attained the
status that you feel you want.
Otherwise, you
wouldn't be here trying
to get more information, which
means you haven't completely
regulated your stress.
You haven't completely
managed your whole lifestyle,
your mental, your
spiritual, emotional,
and you want more,
to feel better.
That's the truth.
And this does not get delivered
to you in a one size fits all.
So I was doing what
I thought was right.
I was meditating.
I've been meditating
my whole life.
How could a meditator have a
stress-based seizure disorder?
The light bulbs were going off.
Because I thought I was
doing the right thing,
but it was not right for me.
Many meditation forms
out there, which
I love because
they're my lifeline,
are not always working
with your nervous system.
Some meditations
in some conditions
actually work against
your nervous system,
making you worse.
So what did I have to do?
I had to create a protocol
based on the neuroscience I
was studying, a
neuroplasticity protocol
so that I could set the
conditions in my mind
and my nervous
system for everything
to learn, change, and
adapt to a new way
to deal with stress so I could
override my seizure response.
And that's exactly what I did.
And I didn't know
if this would work.
And I didn't plan to
have a business or speak.
I just wanted to come
through on the promise
I made my daughter,
which was I'm
not going to die again
on you any time soon.
So I created this protocol
based on the five key things
your brain needs in
every single moment
in order to be receptive
to learning and adaptation.
And it is called neurosculpting.
And it's actually really simple.
It's delivered in a
15-minute meditation format.
But your brain needs
these five things.
Number 1, it needs to know
and anchor into anything
that is comfortable, familiar,
or predictable so that you can
dial down your stress response.
Number 2, your brain needs
to engage recruited focused
attention in the front
of the brain playfully,
not too much so you're
stressed, but not going blank
and letting your thoughts go.
And that happens with
humor, novelty and wonder.
And when you do these
first two steps,
you've induced your brain
and your nervous system
to high states of receptivity,
which means you can now tell it
something you want it to
rehearse and have it learned
and get better at it.
So step 3, is you
focus on a perception
while your body is
receptive and listening.
And you do it with both
sides of your brain engaged
so that your nervous
system is just saying yes.
And then step 4, you
anchor it into your body
so you have a congruent felt
sense to your perceptions.
And step 5, you give
it a word or a phrase.
And if you put those five steps
in a 15-minute mental protocol,
you can change everything
by way of neuroplasticity.
So I'm going to leave
you with this thought.
If a single mother on welfare
with a life-threatening
grand mal seizure
disorder can gain agency
over her nervous
system and improve
every aspect of
her life, then why
couldn't you use neurosculpting
to do exactly the same?
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]